# neovim config

i try to use neovim everywhere, and where i do, i also use this config.  
who needs mice anyways...

this config is NvChad based. 
## requirements

- NeoVim  0.10.0 (or greater)
    - will also work with some older versions of nvim, but some features may break.
    
- many **language servers** need npm to be installed, and grammarly needs cargo. 
    - npm
    - cargo

## setup 
clone this repo into `~/.config/nvim/`.  
wait for the syncing to finish. if there are issues, check whether you fulfill the requirements, close and reopen and press `space u a` to update the plugins. quit that window and from withing nvim press `space u m` to install language servers, formatters and linters.
both of these key combinations are used for updating too, so rerun them as you like, especially if there are issues.

## usage

### key mappings
anything written inbetween angled brackets like so `<something>` needs to be pressed simultaneously, like `<C-n>` being ctrl + n.
alternantively it can be a special key in any other way.  
examples:
- `<C>` control
- `<S>` shift
- `<M>` meta
- `<Tab>` tabulator
- `<Esc>` escape
- `<leader>` currently set to space

anything else has to be pressed in the order that it is shown.  
therefore, `<leader> + ch` translates to first pressing space, then c and then h.  
this makes working with vim like replacing a mouse with typing a text. while this may sound horrible to you right now, i can assure you that it's amazing.

if you just quickly wanna look up a key combination, you can press `<leader> + ch` to bring up an autogenerated cheatsheet of mappings. press `<Esc>` to exit. you also, whenever you start a key combination, get some documentations on what keys you can press next and what they'd do.  

if you want to change any mapping or want to get a deeper understanding, they can be found in three places:
- original vim mappings can be found in their docs 
- most custom mappings can me found in `./lua/mappings/`
- some custom mappings are either defaults of the respective plugin, which can be found in their documentation, or set in the respective plugins configuration file in `./lua/configs/`. currently the only example for this is `copilot.lua`

### plugins 
if you need any plugin that isn't included, add it in the `./lua/plugins/` directory.  
if any plugin isn't needed or it doesn't work and you just wanna get rid of it quickly, uncomment it in `./lua/plugins/`.

### lsps
if you need a language server, refer to `./lua/configs/lspconfig.lua` and `./lua/configs/mason.lua`. 
the lspconfig builds the connection between nvim and the respective lsp, while mason ensures that the lsp is installed.  
after adding an lsp to the config and mason, press `<leader> + um` to update with mason, which installs the lsp if possible.  
sometimes an lsp may need an external tool, like pyright needing npm to install.

rust is an exception. it has to be handled differently, but is installed already, so you don't need to worry.

### external programs
telescope is an amazing fuzzy finder plugin that requires ripgrep to be installed.

lazygit is an external program that brings a tui for git to not only the commandline, but also nvim. if installed, it can be opened with `<leader> + gg` and left with `q`.

### theming
this repo is built around using catppuccin in a sense that some colours are explicitly tweaked to still fit with the theme, but be better for my eyes.
if you want to use a different theme and get weirded out by some out-of-place looking colours, refer to `./lua/configs/highlights.lua`, where custom colours can be specified.

## FAQ:

Q: is it any good?  
A: yes
